Add new tutorial on upgrading (#40212)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/tutorials/upgrade.md

---
title: Upgrade to a new .NET version
description: Learn how to upgrade an app to a new .NET version.
ms.topic: how-to
ms.date: 03/25/2024
---
# Upgrade to a new .NET version

New .NET versions are [released each year](https://github.com/dotnet/core/blob/main/releases.md). Many developers start the upgrade process as soon as the new version is available, while others wait until the version they are using is no longer supported. The upgrade process has multiple aspects to consider.

> ## Requesting an upgrade (as a user)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Request an upgrade (as a user)
```

Reviewer: We're supposed to avoid -ing words per MS style guide.

> You may need an app to use a new .NET version and to make a rquest to the team or vendor that produced the app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might need an app that you use to be upgraded to use a new .NET version. In this case, make a request to the app developer.
```

Common reasons to upgrade to a new .NET version:

- The currently used .NET version is no longer supported
- The new version supports a new operating system

> - The new version has an important performance or security feature

Reviewer 2: Also has a new API or "feature" in general?

Author: I was writing that from the point of an end-user. They are less likely to know about an API. Perhaps I should just delete/re-frame that whole section and then include a longer description of "why upgrade". What do you think?

> ## Upgrading development environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Upgrade development environment
```

The .NET SDK is the primary component to install, to upgrade to a new .NET version. It includes an updated .NET CLI, build system, and runtime version. 

The .NET website offers [installers and archives](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download) that can be downloaded and used on any supported operating system and architecture.

Some operating systems have a package manager that can be used to install a new .NET version, which may be a prefered option for some users.

- [macOS](https://formulae.brew.sh/cask/dotnet-sdk)
- [Linux](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/install/linux)
- [Windows](https://github.com/microsoft/winget-pkgs/tree/master/manifests/m/Microsoft/DotNet/SDK)

Visual Studio installs [new .NET SDK versions automatically](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/porting/versioning-sdk-msbuild-vs). For Visual Studio users, upgrading to a newer Visual Studio version will be sufficient.

> ## Upgrading source code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Upgrade source code
```

The only required change to upgrade an app is updating the `TargetFramework` property in a project file to the newer .NET version.

> Here's how to do it:

Reviewer 3: We have tooling for upgrades, we should absolutely be mentioning them https://aka.ms/dotnet-upgrade-assistant -- it helps automate all of this for you and give you a nice report of more tasks you might need to do!

Reviewer: You should probably link here instead: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/porting/upgrade-assistant-overview (../porting/upgrade-assistant-overview.md)

* Open the project file (the `*.csproj`, `*.vbproj`, or `*.fsproj` file).
* Change the `<TargetFramework>` property value from, for example, `net6.0` to `net8.0`.
* The same pattern applies for the `<TargetFrameworks>` property if it is being used.

The next step is to build the project (or solution) with the new SDK. The SDK will provide warnings and errors that guide any additional changes that are needed.

`dotnet workload restore` may be needed to restore workloads with the new SDK version.

More resources:

* [Breaking changes in .NET 8](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/compatibility/8.0)
* [Migrate from ASP.NET Core in .NET 7 to .NET 8](https://learn.microsoft.com/aspnet/core/migration/70-80?view=aspnetcore-8.0&tabs=visual-studio)
* [Upgrading .NET MAUI from .NET 7 to .NET 8](https://github.com/dotnet/maui/wiki/Upgrading-.NET-MAUI-from-.NET-7-to-.NET-8)

> ## Updating continuous integration (CI)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Update continuous integration (CI)
```

CI pipelines follow a similar update process as project files and Dockerfiles. [CI pipelines](https://github.com/actions/setup-dotnet) can typically be updated with changing only version values.

> ## Updating hosting environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Update hosting environment
```
